Right at the moment.
I guess we have got the valley so on.
All good.
Looks good.
Let me just say that.
All right.
So.
We are sending the email to this endpoint full of.
So let's quickly have a look at this endpoints, how this actually works.
Let's try to understand how back inside our service go to some routes for the password.
So we have the Frogger password endpoint and this is the controller function.
Let's take that out from a password.
So we get the sign of sign in and for password issue.
So what this function does, it is first it tries to access the email from request warning, which is
not a problem.
We are sending the.
The email.
Right.
And then it will try to find the user from the database based on the email.
I guess if it if the user is not found, then we just send the error message users in our phone.
So if we send a message like that, then here we are showing the error message.
So if the user is not fond of that email, we will be showing him this error message user not from user,
this error property from the response to this and this is the one we are accessing here using data to
error.
Sometimes if you get some kind of issue that you cannot access data, not error from undefined, then
you can always make it tick like this one before we try to access the error object.
So let's continue here.
Okay.
So if user is found, then we generate the reset code using this non-native function.
This is the one you can install from npm.
So we have this peg as comes with this one.
No know that is used to generate some token with the five characters, some random strings, and we
just make them all uppercase.
All right.
So that's the that's how we generate the code and then we save that code into this uses data which says
it's a user which is found here from the database we use.
We said the value reset good with this newly generated reset code and we saved that user so that we
this code is already saved in the user's database.
Now, after saving, we want to send this code in the email to the user.
Right, so that he can enter that in the front end.
So that's what we are doing here.
So we have the email from.
Now, at this point, I'm sure you already have the SendGrid keys, which we.
Sign of dissent William got in the very beginning.
So if you don't have, make sure you sign up to send word and get the API key that is needed.
All right.
So we use that now we're using SendGrid to send the email to email from the verified email to the user's
email or email the user have entered and the subject for the email and they're the body it's a symbol
has to email body your password reset code is and this one by the way you have to fix one with the end
that is put a dollar sign and caught this so that you can remove the double quotes and use bektic.
Instead I said this one thing you have to fix is just use it as a variable.
All right.
So this is the email that will be sent to the user using SendGrid.
So again, to await SendGrid, don't send function and this function requests this email data with need
to have the form two subject and his team in which we have here.
All right so it's that simple do send email using SendGrid and then if it is successful of you, we
are sending the response.
Okay, otherwise we'll be sending the.
Okay, false.
All right.
So SendGrid is here.
You can see we have install from NPM and we just give the same key so that we can start using the SendGrid
service I guess is pretty straightforward this function.
So if everything goes well, the user will have the reset code in the database and also the email will
be sent to the user.
So let's queue to try.
Now I say let's try with this email.
Take your email password receptacle is sent now.
Unfortunately, this is not a valid email.
And you can also see now we are showing because we got the successful response, we want to know we
can now show the two fields to enter the code and the new password.
So that's good.
That's working.
Good.
Thanks to this check.
All right.
So instead of this text, we're going to show this form for the password and one more form field to
enter the code.
We'll come back to that.
But this email doesn't work, so let's try using the actual email.
And that should send the e-mail to the user's email.
So let's try to sign up first just so that we have this user.
So I'm going to use ma'am.
Seems this is a valid emergency.
Ms..
And Melinda, go.
Let me just call.
Ma'am.
Sir?
Ms..
Actor.
Let's use my name.
Ryan.
Right.
No more.
It's called Ryan admin.
Right?
Ryan password.
Let's keep it simple.
You can register.
All right.
Okay, so let's sign out and let's the next time we came, we forgot our passports.
In that case, we will go to the password from a password.
Now, enter, ma'am.
See in this the amount.
I want to take your email password reset code is sent.
Awesome.
Let's take the email.
All right.
So you may have to take your spam folder, because usually when you use such email in products and you
will use a domain email, for example, Ryan at your domain dotcom.
Right.
So that would be valid hotel.
Otherwise you might email might be sent to the spam folder to make sure to check the spam folder and
then report as not spam for the first time.
Then it should be fine.
So you can see we got the password reset.
Cool.
Okay.
And this is the email that we sent.
If you.
You can see here in the back in.
The subject and the content here.
The password reset code is that code.
You can see that you know, this code you would need to enter and the user need to enter this code along
with the new password.
And that way they will be able to reset the password.
If you take, you will also find that code saved in the user as well.
Right.
So user in the MongoDB as I'm signing into MongoDB, let's have a look at the database as well.
So let's go.
Browse collections.
So that user we just registered that user, that should be at the very end.
Seems, as you can see in the research code, this user has the research court.
You can see other users didn't have, but this one it has answer.
Now, our next task is to show the code fill and the new password field so that we can finally owe the
user to reset the password.